# Chapter 2 - Hello, World! Exercises

1. Change the program to output the two lines
Hello, programming! Here we go!
2. Expanding on what you have learned, write a program that lists the in- structions for a computer to find the upstairs bathroom, discussed in §2.1. Can you think of any more steps that a person would assume, but that a computer would not? Add them to your list. This is a good start in “think- ing like a computer.” Warning: For most people, “go to the bathroom” is a perfectly adequate instruction. For someone with no experience with houses or bathrooms (imagine a stone-age person, somehow transported into your dining room) the list of necessary instructions could be very long. Please don’t use more than a page. For the benefit of the reader, you may add a short description of the layout of the house you are imagining.
3. Write a description of how to get from the front door of your dorm room, apartment, house, whatever, to the door of your classroom (assuming you are attending some school; if you are not, pick another target). Have a friend try to follow the instructions and annotate them with improve- ments as he or she goes along. To keep friends, it may be a good idea to “field test” those instructions before giving them to a friend.
Find a good cookbook. Read the instructions for baking blueberry muf- fins (if you are in a country where “blueberry muffins” is a strange, exotic dish, use a more familiar dish instead). Please note that with a bit of help and instruction, most of the people in the world can bake delicious blueberry muffins. It is not considered advanced or difficult fine cooking. However, for the author, few exercises in this book are as difficult as this one. It is amazing what you can do with a bit of practice.
• Rewrite those instructions so that each individual action is in its own numbered paragraph. Be careful to list all ingredients and all kitchen utensils used at each step. Be careful about crucial details, such as the desired oven temperature, preheating the oven, the preparation of the muffin pan, the way to time the cooking, and the need to protect your hands when removing the muffins from the oven.
• Consider those instructions from the point of view of a cooking nov- ice (if you are not one, get help from a friend who does not know how to cook). Fill in the steps that the book’s author (almost certainly an experienced cook) left out for being obvious.
• Build a glossary of terms used. (What’s a muffin pan? What does preheating do? What do you mean by “oven”?)
• Now bake some muffins and enjoy your results.
5. Write a definition for each of the terms from “Terms.” First try to see if you can do it without looking at the chapter (not likely), then look through the chapter to find definitions. You might find the difference between your first attempt and the book’s version interesting. You might consult some suitable online glossary, such as www.stroustrup.com/glossary.html. By writing your own definition before looking it up, you reinforce the learn- ing you achieved through your reading. If you have to reread a section to form a definition, that just helps you to understand. Feel free to use your own words for the definitions, and make the definitions as detailed as you think reasonable. Often, an example after the main definition will be helpful. You may like to store the definitions in a file so that you can add to them from the “Terms” sections of later chapters.
